# 20Summer-1DV532
Summer

Exercises:
1. Write a program Print.java that prints the phrase Write once, run everywhere!
! on one line,
! on four lines, one word on each line,
! inside a rectangle made up by the characters *
2. Write a program Numbers.java that asks the user to enter a three-digit integer number. The
program then calculates and prints, the sum and product of the three digits the integer consists
of.
Below is an example of the program execution:
Enter a three-digit integer number: 483
Sum of the digits of the integer number is: 15.
Product of the digits of the integer number is: 96
3. An ISBN-10 (International Standard Book Number) consists of 10 digits: d1d2d3d4d5d6d7d8d9d10.
The last digit, d10, is a checksum, which is calculated from the other nine digits using the
following formula:
(d1 * 1 + d2 * 2 + d3 * 3 + d4 * 4 + d5 * 5 + d6 * 6 + d7 * 7 + d8 * 8 + d9 * 9) % 11
Note: % represents the modulus operator
If the checksum is 10, the last digit is denoted as X according to the ISBN-10 convention.
Write a program ISBN.java that prompts the user to enter the first 9 digits and displays the 10-
digit ISBN (including leading zeros). Your program should read the input as an integer. Below
are two sample runs of the program:
Run 1:
Enter the first 9 digits of an ISBN as integer: 013601267
The ISBN-10 number is: 0136012671
Run 2:
Enter the first 9 digits of an ISBN as integer: 013031997
The ISBN-10 number is 013031997X
4. An Armstrong number is an n-digit number that equals the sum of the nth power of its digits. For
example 153 is a three-digit number where the sum of the cubes of the individual digits (1 + 125
+ 27) equals the number itself (153).
Write a program ArmstrongNumber.java that prompts user to enter a range for Armstrong
numbers. The range is entered by asking user to enter a starting and an ending number for the
range. The program then computes and prints Armstrong number, if any, in the entered range.
Next, the program should prompt for a new range until the user decides that she or he is through.
Use variables of the type integer to store the start and end numbers of the range.
Page 3 (4)
Below is an example of the program execution:
Enter the starting number of the range :100
Enter the ending number of the range :1000
The Armstrong numbers between the given range are :
153
370
371
407
Do you want to repeat? (Y/N) : Y
Enter the starting number of the range :200
Enter the ending number of the range :300
The Armstrong numbers between the given range are :
Do you want to repeat? (Y/N) : N
5. Write a program Days.java that prompts user to enter two non-negative integer values:
! The first value is for today’s day of the week and must be from 0 to 6, for today’s day of the
week. The program should display an appropriate error message if the entered value is not
from 0 to 6.
! The second value is to compute the future day. The future day is computed by adding the
second value to the first value.
! The program should then determine and print today’s day of the week and the future day of
the week based on codes as follows: Sunday is 0, Monday is 1, …, and Saturday is 6.
Below are the outputs from two example executions of the program:
Run 1:
Enter today's day: 1
Enter the number for the future day: 3
Today is Monday and the future day is Thursday
Run 2:
Enter today's day: 0
Enter the number for the future day: 31
Today is Sunday and the future day is Wednesday
6. The Babylonian algorithm to compute square root of a positive number n is as follows:
1. Make a guess at the answer (you can pick n/2 as your initial guess).
2. Compute r = n / guess.
3. Set guess = (guess + r) / 2.
4. Go back to step 2 until the last two guess values are within 1% of each other.
Write a program SquareRoot.java that prompts user to enter an integer value for n, iterates
through the Babylonian algorithm until the guess is within 1% of the previous guess and outputs
the answer as a real number to two decimal places. 
Page 4 (4)
Below is an example of the program execution:
This program estimate square roots.
Enter an integer to estimate the square root of: 25
Current guess: 7.25
Current guess: 5.349137931034482
Current guess: 5.011394106532552
Current guess: 5.000012953048684
The estimated square root of 25 is 5.00
7. Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By
starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89
Write a program Fibonacci.java that prints a Fibonacci sequence starting with 1 and 2 and
whose values do not exceed one thousand. The program should also compute and print a sum of
the odd-valued terms in the required Fibonacci sequence.
